docs(runtime-config): clarify how environment variables are loaded (#5916)
nuxt/framework: docs/content/2.guide/2.features/10.runtime-config.md

The most common way to provide configuration is by using [Environment Variables](https://medium.com/chingu/an-introduction-to-environment-variables-and-how-to-use-them-f602f66d15fa).

::alert{type=info}
Nuxt CLI has built-in [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) support in development mode and when running `nuxi build` and `nuxi generate`.

> In addition to any process environment variables, if you have a `.env` file in your project root directory, it will be automatically loaded **at build/dev/generate time**, and any environment variables set there will be accessible within your `nuxt.config` file and modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to any process environment variables, if you have a `.env` file in your project root directory, it will be automatically loaded **at build, dev, and generate time**, and any environment variables set there will be accessible within your `nuxt.config` file and modules.
```

The most common way to provide configuration is by using [Environment Variables](https://medium.com/chingu/an-introduction-to-environment-variables-and-how-to-use-them-f602f66d15fa).

::alert{type=info}

> Nuxt CLI has built-in [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) support, allowing the adoption of `.env` files also outside of a node environment (e.g. in SSG).

Reviewer: This should make it more clear that it is during generation.

```suggestion
Nuxt CLI has built-in [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) when building, generating, and also in development mode.
```

In addition to any process environment variables, if you have a `.env` file in your project root directory, it will be automatically loaded into `process.env` **at build time**, and therefore accessible within your `nuxt.config` file and modules.

Alternatively, you could pass the environment variables as arguments using the terminal, e.g. `DATABASE_HOST=mydatabaseconnectionstring node .output/server/index.mjs`.

However, at **runtime** (i.e. while the application is running), your initial configuration files will not be read anymore, and only the current value accessible via the `runtimeConfig` API will be accessible.
::

> Runtime config values are automatically replaced by matching environment variables. For this to work, you _must_ have a fallback value (which can just be an empty string) defined in your `nuxt.config`.

Reviewer: It is actually at runtme. 

```suggestion
Runtime config values are automatically replaced by matching environment variables at runtime. For this to work, you _must_ have a fallback value (which can just be an empty string) defined in your `nuxt.config`.
```

Author: > It is actually at runtme.

But in other parts of the docs you are saying that nuxt will restart when these are updates (see https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/nuxt.config#runtimeconfig).
This means that the change _is tracked_ at runtime, but the value _**is not**_ available at runtime

Reviewer: Yes, that how it works for development mode to restart Nuxt and updating `process.env` from `.env`. Still overriding happens in runtime for all modes. Meaning they are replaced from latest and live value of `process.env`. Regardless of `process.env` being populated from `.env` or an explicit env you set.

Author: > Yes, that how it works for development mode to restart Nuxt and updating `process.env` from `.env`. Still overriding happens in runtime for all modes. Meaning they are replaced from latest and live value of `process.env`. Regardless of `process.env` being populated from `.env` or an explicit env you set.

I see. Then it should be clear that the restart is happening only in develop mode (although it's still not clear to me why a restart is needed)

Reviewer: Makse sense. Maybe it can be appended to the end of line "In addition to any process environment variable..." that "when updating `.env` in development mode, Nuxt instance is automatically restarted to apply new values to the `process.env`" (or something like that)

Author: > Makse sense. Maybe it can be appended to the end of line "In addition to any process environment variable..." that "when updating `.env` in development mode, Nuxt instance is automatically restarted to apply new values to the `process.env`" (or something like that)

Sounds good to me, do you want me to write or will you do it?

Reviewer: Feel free to edit.
